Overview
--------

This project wraps common mutable datastructures for inheritance with modification.

Links
-----

- Download: https://pypi.org/project/datahold/#files
- Index: https://pypi.org/project/datahold/
- Source: https://github.com/johannes-programming/datahold/
- Website: https://datahold.johannes-programming.online/

Installation
------------

To install datahold, you can use pip. Open your terminal and run:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install datahold

Features
--------

`class datahold.DataABC(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`__hash__() -> int`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the inbuilt function hash. Its function is unhash.unhash. It always raises a TypeError.

`__subclasshook__(other: type, /) -> bool`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

`data: Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^

This abstract property acts as the linchpin of all decending classes.

`class datahold.DataDict(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This class is a brute wrapper for dict. It inherits from DataABC and collections.abc.MutableMapping . Its constructor passes all arguments to the constructor of dict and the result is saved within the data property.

`__contains__(key: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the in operator. Internally its code is equivalent to the following:

.. code-block:: python

    def __contains__(self: Self, key: Any, /) -> Any:
        "True if the dictionary has the specified key, else False."
        data = dict(self.data)
        ans = data.__contains__(*args, **kwargs)
        self.data = frozendict(data)
        return ans

The imprecise annotations and docstring are due to it adhering to the underlying dict.__contains__ as closely as possible.

`__delitem__(key: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the deletion of items. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__eq__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the == operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__format__(format_spec: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the inbuilt format function. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__ge__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the >= operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__getitem__(key: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the returning of items. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__gt__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the > operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__hash__() -> int`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the inbuilt function hash. Its function is unhash.unhash . It always raises a TypeError.

`__ior__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the `|=` operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__iter__() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements iteration. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__le__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the <= operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__len__() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the inbuilt len function. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__lt__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the < operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__or__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the | operator. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__repr__() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements representation. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__reversed__() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the inbuilt reversed function. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__ror__(value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the | operator from the right side if the left operand does not have it implemented. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__setitem__(key: Any, value: Any, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the setting of items. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__str__() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This magic method implements the explicit conversion into a string. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`__subclasshook__(other: type, /) -> bool`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This classmethod is inherited directly from DataABC .

`clear() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method deletes of all items. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`copy() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method implements dublication. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ . Remember that because of that a dict is returned.

`get(key: Any, default: Any = None, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method implements getting an item with a default in case of its absence. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`items() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method returns an iterator over the items. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`keys() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method returns an iterator over the keys. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`popitem() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method deletes and returns the last item. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`setdefault(key: Any, default: Any = None, /) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method ensures the presence of a key. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`update(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any) -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method updates the data. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`values() -> Any`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This method returns an iterator over the values. Its inner workings are analogous to __contains__ .

`class datahold.DataList(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This class is analogous to DataDict . It implements the magic methods __add__, __contains__, __delitem__, __eq__, __format__, __ge__, __getitem__, __gt__, __iadd__, __imul__, __iter__, __le__, __len__, __lt__, __mul__, __repr__, __reversed__, __rmul__, __setitem__, and __str__. The other methods implemented are append, clear, copy, count, extend, index, insert, pop, remove, reverse, and sort. It is a child of DataABC and of collections.abc.MutableSequence , thereby also inheriting their members.

`class datahold.DataSet(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This class is analogous to DataDict. It implements the magic methods __and__, __contains__, __eq__, __format__, __ge__, __gt__, __iand__, __ior__, __isub__, __iter__, __le__, __len__, __lt__, __or__, __rand__, __repr__, __ror__, __rsub__, __rxor__, __str__, __sub__, __rmul__, __sub__, and __xor__. The other methods implemented are add, clear, copy, difference, difference_update, discard, intersection, intersection_update, isdisjoint, issubset, issuperset, pop, remove, symmetric_difference, symmetric_difference_update, union, and update. It is a child of DataABC and of collections.abc.MutableSet , thereby also inheriting their members.

`class datahold.HoldABC(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`class datahold.HoldDict(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`data: frozendict`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This property is implemented with the equivalent to the following code:

.. code-block:: python

    @property
    def data(self: Self) -> dict:
        return dict(self._data)

    @data.setter
    def data(self: Self, value: Any) -> None:
        self._data = frozendict(value)

`class datahold.HoldList(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`data: tuple`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This property is implemented with the equivalent to the following code:

.. code-block:: python

    @property
    def data(self: Self) -> tuple:
        return self._data

    @data.setter
    def data(self: Self, value: Any) -> None:
        self._data = tuple(value)

`class datahold.HoldSet(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`data: frozenset`
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This property is implemented with the equivalent to the following code:

.. code-block:: python

    @property
    def data(self: Self) -> frozenset:
        return self._data

    @data.setter
    def data(self: Self, value: Any) -> None:
        self._data = frozenset(value)

`class datahold.OkayABC(*args: Any, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A common ABC for OkayList, OkayDict, and OkaySet. Child of Scaevola and HoldABC . It implements common-sense overwrites for some methods. For example:

- All methods that cannot actually change the underlying object are now bound to _data instead of data.
- __bool__ is implemented as bool(self._data) because neither list, dict, nor set have a __bool__ method defined.
- The comparison operations are overwritten:
    * __eq__ returns self._data == type(self._data)(other).
    * __ne__ negates __eq__.
    * __ge__ returns type(self)(other) <= self (inherited from scaevola.Scaevola).
    * __gt__ returns not (self == other) and (self >= other).
    * __lt__ returns not (self == other) and (self <= other).
    * __le__ returns self._data <= type(self)(other)._data.

Modify __eq__ or __le__ as needed to change the behavior of the other comparison methods.

`class datahold.OkayDict(data: Iterable = (), /, **kwargs: Any)`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A subclass of HoldDict with common-sense implementations for further inheritance, just like OkayList for HoldList.

`class datahold.OkayList(data: Iterable = ())`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This class inherits from HoldList and OkayABC.

`class datahold.OkaySet(data: Iterable = ())`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A subclass of HoldSet with common-sense implementations for further inheritance, just like OkayList for HoldList.

`datahold.test() -> unittest.TextTestResult`
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This project can be tested through its test function.

.. code-block:: python

    import datahold
    datahold.test()

License
-------

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Impressum
---------

**Johannes Programming**

- Name: Johannes
- Email: johannes.programming@gmail.com
- Homepage: https://www.johannes-programming.online/
- Gravatar: https://www.johannes-programming.fyi/